docs: Add docs on how use custom Python processors (#753)
stackabletech/nifi-operator: docs/modules/nifi/pages/usage_guide/custom-components/custom-python-processors.adoc

= Custom Python processors

> In NiFi 2.0 support for custom processors written in Python have been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In NiFi 2.0 support for custom processors written in Python has been added.
```

> The Stackable images already contain the needed tools, such as - obviously - a supported Python version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Stackable images already contain the required tooling, such as - obviously - a supported Python version.
```

== General configuration

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  nodes:
    configOverrides:
      nifi.properties:
        nifi.python.command: python3
        # This property needs to be specified (otherwise a NullPointerException occurs)
        nifi.python.working.directory: /nifi-python-working-directory
        # This is needed to detect the Controller.py location (internally used by NiFi)
        nifi.python.framework.source.directory: /stackable/nifi/python/framework/
        # This is the folder where the Python scripts are sourced from
        # We need to get the Python files in here

>         nifi.python.extensions.source.directory.custom: /nifi-python-extensions

Author: > There is no horizontal scroll bar in code blocks

Wait, you don't have a horizontal scroll bar as I have?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/82d7511f-1840-412e-b78e-4b69f775664f)

>         nifi.python.extensions.source.directory.custom: /nifi-python-extensions

Reviewer 2: It seems to be Browser-dependent. My browser (qutebrowser with the Chromium engine) does not show a scroll bar. Firefox shows a scroll bar only on hovering over the code. Chromium shows it permanently.

Nevertheless, it is more readable, if you do not have to scroll.

>         nifi.python.extensions.source.directory.custom: /nifi-python-extensions

Author: IMHO things like
```yaml
        nifi.python.extensions.source.directory.custom: >
          /nifi-python-extensions
```
just look so weird compared to
```yaml
        nifi.python.extensions.source.directory.custom: /nifi-python-extensions
```

As I often times copy from the docs into demos or customer setups I would always need to basically revert the change. Thinking about it, I personally would prioritize the usage [for customers copying the stuff into their env] over the annoyance of scrolling. But maybe we can get a third opinion on this

----

== Getting Python scripts into NiFi

TIP: NiFi should hot-reload the Python scripts. You might need to refresh your browser window to see the new processor.

[#configmap]
=== 1. Mount as ConfigMap

> The easiest way is defining a ConfigMap as follows and mount that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way is defining a ConfigMap and mounting it as follows.
```

This way the Python processors are stored and versioned alongside your NiFiCluster itself.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: nifi-python-extensions
data:
  HelloWorldProcessor.py: |
    from nifiapi.flowfiletransform import FlowFileTransform, FlowFileTransformResult

    class WriteHelloWorld(FlowFileTransform):
        class Java:
            implements = ['org.apache.nifi.python.processor.FlowFileTransform']
        class ProcessorDetails:
            version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'

        def __init__(self, **kwargs):
            pass

        def transform(self, context, flowfile):

>             return FlowFileTransformResult(relationship = "success", contents = "Hello World", attributes = {"greeting": "hello"})

Author: Switched the example to `FlowFileSource`, no opinion on that

>             return FlowFileTransformResult(relationship = "success", contents = "Hello World", attributes = {"greeting": "hello"})

Reviewer 2: Resolved because the whole code is visible after stackabletech/documentation-ui#78 was merged.

You need to add a sidecar using podOverrides that syncs into a shared volume between the `nifi` and `git-sync` container.

The following snippet can serve as a starting point (the Git repo has the folder `processors` with the Python scripts inside).

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  nodes:
    podOverrides:
      spec:
        containers:
          - name: nifi
            volumeMounts:
              - name: nifi-python-extensions
                mountPath: /nifi-python-extensions
              - name: nifi-python-working-directory
                mountPath: /nifi-python-working-directory
          - name: git-sync
            image: registry.k8s.io/git-sync/git-sync:v4.2.3
            args:
              - --repo=https://github.com/stackabletech/nifi-talk
              - --root=/nifi-python-extensions
              - --period=10s
            volumeMounts:
              - name: nifi-python-extensions
                mountPath: /nifi-python-extensions
        volumes:
          - name: nifi-python-extensions
            emptyDir: {}
          - name: nifi-python-working-directory
            emptyDir: {}
----

> Afterwards you need to update your source directory (you added previously) accordingly to point into the Git subfolder you have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards you need to update your source directory (the one you added previously) accordingly, to point into the Git subfolder you have.
```

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  nodes:
    configOverrides:
      nifi.properties:
        # Replace the property from the previous step
        # Format is /nifi-python-extensions/<git-repo-name>/<git-folder>/

>         nifi.python.extensions.source.directory.custom: /nifi-python-extensions/nifi-talk/processors/

Author: I don't like that, but in this case maybe the line is a bit long.
I'll apply it extra for you :)

----

=== 3. Use PersistentVolume

You can also mount a PVC below `/nifi-python-extensions` using podOverrides and shell into the NiFi Pod to make changes.
However, the <<configmap>> or <<git-sync>> approach is recommended.

== Check processors have been loaded

NiFi logs every Python processor it found.
You can use that to check if the processors have been loaded.

[source,console]
----

> $ kubectl logs nifi-2-0-0-node-default-0 -c nifi | grep -P 'Discovered Python Processor|Discovered or updated [0-9]+ Python Processors'
> 2025-02-14 14:40:20,694 INFO [main] o.a.n.n.StandardExtensionDiscoveringManager Discovered Python Processor PythonZgrepProcessor
> 2025-02-14 14:40:20,697 INFO [main] o.a.n.n.StandardExtensionDiscoveringManager Discovered Python Processor TransformOpenskyStates
> 2025-02-14 14:40:20,700 INFO [main] o.a.n.n.StandardExtensionDiscoveringManager Discovered Python Processor UpdateAttributeFileLookup
> 2025-02-14 14:40:20,700 INFO [main] o.a.n.n.StandardExtensionDiscoveringManager Discovered or updated 3 Python Processors in 60 millis

Reviewer 2: Reformatted (and tested) with a maximum line length of 75:

```suggestion
$ kubectl logs nifi-2-0-0-node-default-0 -c nifi \
      | grep 'Discovered.*Python Processor'
… INFO [main] …  Discovered Python Processor PythonZgrepProcessor
… INFO [main] …  Discovered Python Processor TransformOpenskyStates
… INFO [main] …  Discovered Python Processor UpdateAttributeFileLookup
… INFO [main] …  Discovered or updated 3 Python Processors in 64 millis
```

Author: Regarding the line-break before grep: I personally prefer one-lines but that's personal taste.
Thanks for shortening the logs!

== Getting Python scripts into NiFi

TIP: NiFi should hot-reload the Python scripts. You might need to refresh your browser window to see the new processor.

[#configmap]
=== 1. Mount as ConfigMap

The easiest way is defining a ConfigMap and mounting it as follows.
This way, the Python processors are stored and versioned alongside your NifiCluster itself.

// Technically it's yaml, but the most content is Python
[source,python]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: nifi-python-extensions
data:
  CreateFlowFileProcessor.py: |
    from nifiapi.flowfilesource import FlowFileSource, FlowFileSourceResult

    class CreateFlowFile(FlowFileSource):
        class Java:
            implements = ['org.apache.nifi.python.processor.FlowFileSource']

        class ProcessorDetails:
            version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
            description = '''A Python processor that creates FlowFiles.'''

        def __init__(self, **kwargs):
            pass

        def create(self, context):
            return FlowFileSourceResult(
                relationship = 'success',
                attributes = {'greeting': 'hello'},
                contents = 'Hello World!'
            )
----

> The python script is taken from https://nifi.apache.org/nifi-docs/python-developer-guide.html#flowfile-source[the offical NiFi Python developer guide].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Python script is taken from https://nifi.apache.org/nifi-docs/python-developer-guide.html#flowfile-source[the offical NiFi Python developer guide].
```
